docs/overview/goals.md, before:

# Goals

When I set about making this lab I had a number of goals - I wonder how well I will do :thinking:?

A master list of ideas/goals/etc can be found at :octicons-issue-tracks-16: [Issue #1](https://github.com/truxnell/nix-config/issues/1)

<div class="grid cards" markdown>

- __:material-sword: Stability__ <br>NixOS stable channel for core services unstable for desktop apps/non-mission critical where desired. Containers with SHA256 pinning for server apps
- __:kiss: KISS__<br>Keep it Simple, use boring, reliable, trusted tools - not todays flashy new software repo
- __:zzz: Easy Updates__<br>Weekly update schedule, utilizing Renovate for updating lockfile and container images.  Autoupdates enabled off main branch for mission critical. Aim for 'magic rollback' on upgrade failure
- __:material-cloud-upload: Backups__<br>Nightly restic backups to both cloud and NAS. All databases to have nightly backups. _Test backups regulary_
- __:repeat: Reproducability__<br>Flakes & Git for version pinning, SHA256 tags for containers.
- __:alarm_clock: Monitoring__<br>Automated monitoring on failure & critical summaries, using basic tools. Use Gatus for both internal and external monitoring
- __:clipboard: Continuous Integration__<br>CI against main branch to ensure all code compiles OK. Use PR's to add to main and dont skip CI due to impatience
- __:material-security: Security__<br>Dont use containers with S6 overlay/root (i.e. LSIO :grey_question:{ title="LSIO trades security for convenience with their container configuration" }). Expose minimal ports at router, Reduce attack surface by keeping it simple, review hardening containers/podman/NixOS
- __:fontawesome-solid-martini-glass-citrus: Ease of administration__<br>Lean into the devil that is SystemD - and have one standard interface to see logs, manipulate services, etc. Run containers as podman services, and webui's for watching/debugging
- __:simple-letsencrypt: Secrets__ _~ssshh~.._<br>[Sops-nix](https://github.com/Mic92/sops-nix) for secrets, living in my gitrepo. Avoid cloud services like I used in k8s (i.e. [Doppler.io](https://doppler.io))
</div>

Commit message:

refactor folder structure for simplicity (#621)
* refactor folder structure for simplicity

* refactor: use inherit for user, group, and port in various application configurations

* chore: switch to flake and enhance development environment with new tools and commands

* feat: add comprehensive test suite command to Justfile

* chore: remove deprecated vaultwarden configuration files and profiles

- Deleted .envrc, flake.lock, flake.nix, fly.toml, and Taskfile.yml for vaultwarden.
- Cleaned up unused hardware profiles for various systems in nixos/profiles.

* chore: enhance GitHub workflows for code quality checks

- Added a code formatting check using 'nix fmt' to ensure consistent code style.
- Included a flake structure check to validate the integrity of the flake configuration in the check-flakes workflow.
- Updated the path for the fly.toml configuration in the deploy-vault workflow to reflect the new directory structure.

* chore: update flake configuration and enhance testing infrastructure

- Replaced `nixpkgs-fmt` with `nixfmt-tree` for code formatting in `flake.nix`.
- Added a new development shell for Fly.io Vaultwarden deployment.
- Introduced comprehensive testing scripts and validation checks in `test-flake.sh`.
- Created `test-nix-expressions.nix` for Nix expression validation.
- Established a GitHub Actions workflow for automated testing and code quality checks.
- Documented code quality standards and testing procedures in the development guide.

* chore: file perms

docs/overview/goals.md, after:

# Goals

When I set about making this lab I had a number of goals - I wonder how well I will do :thinking:?

A master list of ideas/goals/etc can be found at :octicons-issue-tracks-16: [Issue #1](https://github.com/truxnell/nix-config/issues/1)

<div class="grid cards" markdown>

- __:material-sword: Stability__ <br>NixOS stable channel for core services unstable for desktop apps/non-mission critical where desired. Containers with SHA256 pinning for server apps
- __:kiss: KISS__<br>Keep it Simple, use boring, reliable, trusted tools - not todays flashy new software repo
- __:zzz: Easy Updates__<br>Weekly update schedule, utilizing Renovate for updating lockfile and container images.  Autoupdates enabled off main branch for mission critical. Aim for 'magic rollback' on upgrade failure
- __:material-cloud-upload: Backups__<br>Nightly restic backups to both cloud and NAS. All databases to have nightly backups. _Test backups regulary_
- __:repeat: Reproducability__<br>Flakes & Git for version pinning, SHA256 tags for containers.
- __:alarm_clock: Monitoring__<br>Automated monitoring on failure & critical summaries, using basic tools. Use Gatus for both internal and external monitoring
- __:clipboard: Continuous Integration__<br>CI against main branch to ensure all code compiles OK. Use PR's to add to main and dont skip CI due to impatience. Comprehensive testing infrastructure with automated validation, linting, and formatting checks
- __:material-security: Security__<br>Dont use containers with S6 overlay/root (i.e. LSIO :grey_question:{ title="LSIO trades security for convenience with their container configuration" }). Expose minimal ports at router, Reduce attack surface by keeping it simple, review hardening containers/podman/NixOS
- __:fontawesome-solid-martini-glass-citrus: Ease of administration__<br>Lean into the devil that is SystemD - and have one standard interface to see logs, manipulate services, etc. Run containers as podman services, and webui's for watching/debugging
- __:simple-letsencrypt: Secrets__ _~ssshh~.._<br>[Sops-nix](https://github.com/Mic92/sops-nix) for secrets, living in my gitrepo. Avoid cloud services like I used in k8s (i.e. [Doppler.io](https://doppler.io))
</div>
